Break down means to change a whole into pieces.
Winter is a kind of season.
Heating means adding heat.
Water is a kind of liquid.
A rock is a hard substance composed of minerals.
Protecting something means preventing harm.
Evaporation is when a liquid changes to a gas.
An animal is a kind of organism.
Metals conduct electricity.
Weather includes wind. lighting. storms. hurricanes. tornadoes. rain. hail. and snow.
Weathering involves breaking down a larger object into smaller pieces.
Motion is when an object moves in a direction.
Sunlight means solar energy.
Weathering is usually caused by interaction with wind or water over long periods of time.
The amount of daylight is least on the winter solstice.
A plant is a kind of organism.
The amount of daylight is greatest on the summer solstice.
Melting happens when solids are heated.
Green plants provide food for themselves and animals.
Disguise is to change appearance to hide.
A star is a source of light.
Adding something is a kind of change.
The amount of daylight is greatest in summer.
The source of wind and water in the weathering process is usually from weather.
Vapor means a gas.
Daylight is the length of time that the sun shines on a location.
Producers are living things that convert solar energy into food for themselves.
A body of water contains water.
Weathering is a process that breaks down rocks and other surface materials into smaller pieces.
Heat is a kind of energy.
The amount of daylight is least in winter.
NEGATIVE : Insulators are not conductors.
Being the source of something means emitting that thing.
An electrical conductor allows electricity to flow or travel through.
A decomposer breaks down dead organisms and recycles their nutrients into the soil.
The closer something is that emits light. the brighter it will appear.
Green plants are a kind of producer.
In the Northern Hemisphere. the summer solstice is on June 21st.
Photosynthesis converts sunlight into sugars that a plant cell uses as food and a source of energy.
A decomposer is a living thing.
Providing something means making or delivering something.
Camouflage means a visual disguise.
A stove is a machine used to generate heat. usually for cooking.
Plastic is a kind of electrical insulator.
Plants make food through a process called photosynthesis.
Flying is a kind of motion.
Migration is when animals move in an annual cycle.
A lung is an organ that converts air into blood oxygen.
Being the same color as the environment is a form of camouflage.
The sun is the closest star.
A gill is an organ that converts water to oxygen.
Rubber is a kind of electrical insulator.
South is a kind of direction.
Habitats support animals.
Camouflage is a kind of adaptation.
Killing something means harming it in a way that causes death.
Changing from a solid to a liquid is called melting.
Changing from a liquid to a solid is called freezing.
Earth is a kind of planet.
The Earth completes one rotation. or one turn on it's axis. every day.
The arctic environment is white.
Rotation is a kind of motion.
December is a month.
A season happens at a particular time of year.
Generate means to create.
Camouflage is a form of protection from predators.
Blending in means hiding.
Shiny things reflect light.
Each season happens once per year.
Eye color is an inherited characteristic.
One day is the time it takes for the Earth to rotate once. and includes the day time and night time.
Plants need food to survive.
A decomposer is a part of the food chain process.
An inherited characteristic is a characteristic that is copied from a parent to the offspring.
A trait means a characteristic.
The shortest something means the least something.
Hiding is a form of protection from predators.
Many birds migrate to warmer places for the winter.
Adding something means you transfer it from one place to another.
Annual means something happens once per year.
Reduce means less.
An example of migration is moving to a warmer climate in the winter to avoid cold months.
Friction causes the temperature of an object to increase.
An instrument is similar to a tool.
Eyes are a part of the head used to see.
Cooling means removing heat.
Pedalling a bicycle involves moving the medals in a circular motion to move the bicycle forward.
Changes in season are caused by changes in the Earth's tilt on its axis.
Sight is sensing light with the eyes.
Seeing small things is easier with a magnifying glass.
The lungs are a part of the body.
Boiling happens when liquids are heated.
December is in the winter.
Seeing small things is easier if they can be made to appear bigger.
Mechanical energy is a kind of energy.
White fur is white.
Gills are an organ used by aquatic animals to breathe water.
An adaptation is a kind of change made in response to the environment.
A bird is a kind of animal that flies.
Humans are a kind of animal.
Condensing happens when gasses are cooled.
Fossils of an animal being found somewhere means that animal lived in that place long ago.
Friction increases as surface roughness increases.
Wood is a kind of electrical insulator.
Sight is seeing things.
Conducting heat energy means that if part of an object is exposed to heat energy. the heat will transfer to the entire object. and the entire object will become the same temperature.
A marble is a kind of object.
Eating is taking in food to get nutrients and energy.
The bottom is the lowest part of something.
In the Northern Hemisphere. the winter solstice is on December 21st.
Metal objects conduct heat energy.
Some animals grow thicker fur in the winter to stay warm.
Trash means waste.
Sound is a kind of energy.
Pollinating animals include birds. bees. and other animals.
Light is a kind of energy.
Removing means decrease.
Making means producing.
Texture is a property of an object.
Meters are used to describe an object's length.
An object's texture is how the object feels.
Needing something means depending on something.
A meter is a unit of measurement.
Low means down.
Preventing something means making it not happen.
Touch is a sense.
The sun is not a star in the night sky.
Soil contains nutrients that plants absorb through their roots.
Paper is a kind of object.
Soil erosion is the loss of soil from water or wind.
Cold means low in temperature.
Air is a kind of gas.
If you touch something. you feel it.
Cold means low temperature.
Objects have surfaces.
Electromagnets are magnets powered by electricity.
In a food chain. an animal is a consumer.
An example of a seasonal change is growing thick fur.
Plants require nutrients to grow.
Condensing is when a gas changes into a liquid.
Observing something visually for scientific purposes requires that you can see it well.
The three main classes of rocks are igneous. sedimentary. and metamorphic.
A pan is a kind of metal container used for cooking.
Friction occurs when two surfaces move against each other.
Swimming is moving through water.
Sunlight means energy from the sun.
Blood is a part of the body.
An animal's color is usually the color of their fur or skin.
Break apart means break down.
Ice wedging is a kind of mechanical weathering resulting from freezing and thawing water.
Snowy means a large amount of snow.
A metal fork is made out of metal.
An ice cube is a solid.
Migration is a kind of adaptation.
Pulling is a kind of motion.
The sun causes water to evaporate quicker.
Habitats support plants.
Iron is a kind of metal.
The ocean is a body of water.
Humans changing a living thing's habitat usually causes that living thing harm.
A magnifying glass is a tool that can be used to make things appear bigger. so that they can be seen better.
Winter is when the temperature decreases.
A balance is an instrument used to determine the mass of an object.
The artic environment is covered in snow.
The stars in the night sky are very far away.
Plants reproduce through a process called pollination.
An ocean is a large area of salt water.
Light is the energy that our eyes sense.
Offspring means child.
Eating an animal means killing it.
Snow is white.
Animals eat food to get nutrients required for survival.
Soil erosion means soil is moved away. usually by water or wind.
Changing from a liquid to a gas is called boiling.
All fish have gills.
Freezing happens when liquids are cooled.
Harming something has a negative impact.
A cell produces carbon dioxide as waste.
Recycling reduces the amount of waste sent to landfills.
Gravity is a force that pulls things down.
Altitude is the distance from the ground to an object in the sky.
Plants require soil to survive.
Soil development starts with weathering bedrock.
Fire is a chemical reaction that gives off light. heat. and sometimes smoke.
Strength is a property of an object.
Solar energy is a kind of light.
Coal is a kind of fuel that comes from under the ground.
The sun is the closest star to the Earth.
Hot means high heat energy.
Counting something visually requires that you can see it well.
Natural gas can be burned to create heat.
Water is a kind of object.
Ice is a kind of solid.
A consumer eats producers or other animals.
Repel means move away.
The closer to the North Pole a location is. the more daylight it receives during the summer.
A bird is born inside an egg.
If an animal's habitat no longer exists. it usually dies.
Summer is a kind of season.
Loud is a property of sound meaning high intensity.
An animals color is usually the color of their fur or skin.
A pond is a kind of habitat.
Literacy means being able to read and write.
The rotation of the earth on its axis causes the sun to appear moving in the sky.
In a food chain. plants are producers.
Dimmer means less bright.
Leaving something undisturbed means not changing it.
Pile is a kind of motion that places things on top of each other.
A fossil in the remains of a very old or ancient living thing.
Weight is measured in grams. kilograms. or pounds.
An aquatic animal is an animal that spends at least some of it's time in the water.
A wooden block is an object.
Seeds are a part of a plant.
An electric fan is a kind of electrical device.
A forest is a kind of environment.
Growth means to increase in size. number. value. or strength.
Sharpening changes an object's shape and size.
Seconds are used to measure time.
Winter is when a hemisphere is tiled away from the sun.
Corn is a kind of seed.
New York State is in the United States of America.
A squid produces thrust by pushing water away.
A push is a kind of force.
The mouth is a part of the digestive system.
Developing means making. creating. or growing.
A tube is a kind of hollow object used for transporting liquids.
Cells convert oxygen and sugar into energy and waste.
A length of time means a period of time.
Polluting is to cause harm to an environment by adding something harmful or poisonous to living things.
Children means offspring.
The south pole of one magnet will repel the south pole of another magnet.
A brain controls the human body through the nervous system.
A magnet that is attracted to a metal will stick to that metal.
Air is a kind of medium for light.
A fire contains a flame.
Lava is magma that flows onto the Earth's surface.
Sandpaper is made from sand glued to the surface of paper.
A guitar is a kind of musical instrument.
A container of water contains water.
Animals have eyes.
NEGATIVE : Sand does not have a smooth surface.
Animals need oxygen to survive.
Plants require water to survive.
Soil is a kind of renewable resource.
Resistant means something does not happen easily.
A water lily is a kind of plant.
An adult may reproduce. starting the life cycle over again for it's children.
One week means seven days.
Climate is the usual kind of weather in a location.
When plants grow. they may increase the size or number of their leaves.
Condensation happens because the air is able to hold less water when cooled.
Harmful means negative.
If something contains a large amount of metal. then it may attract magnets.
Soil with a lot of nutrients is high quality soil.
Food travels from the mouth to the stomach through the esophagus.
An average lizard weighs 0.5 kg.
Drop means to make something fall.
Soft is a kind of touch sensation.
A telephone is a tool for communication.
Skidding is a kind of motion where speed is decreased through braking and friction.
A mushroom is a living thing.
An apple tree is a kind of plant.
A girl is a kind of organism.
The skeletal system protects important internal organs like the brain. heart. and lungs.
Being healthy means being in good health.
Kill means to die.
A frog is an aquatic animal that usually lives in ponds.
The digiestive system means the gastrointestinal system.
A meal is one or more foods.
Addition means increase.
Juice is a kind of liquid.
The pole of one magnet will attract the opposite pole of another magnet.
Aluminum is not magnetic.
The purpose of a cell wall is to make the cell strong. and keep it's shape.
Weeks are a unit of time.
A car moves on the road.
Anchor means to provide support.
Expanding means spreading out.
A roller skate is a vehicle that moves on wheels.
Dim means emitting little light.
When an object is partially in water. it is also partially in air.
The digestive system is a part of the body.
Sunlight is a form of light.
Hardness means how strong or hard a material is.
Oceans cover 70 % of the Earth's surface.
Streak can be tested by rubbing a mineral on a streak plate.
Water is a kind of matter.
A girl is a kind of animal.
The sun is the largest object in the solar system.
A cell is microscopic.
Centimeters are usually used for measuring short distances.
Conserving water means using less water.
Camouflaged means hard to see.
The final stage of the life cycle is death. when the bird is no longer alive. generally due to disease. or being eaten by a predator.
A fuel is a kind of energy source.
Rapidly means fast.
Fossils of clams being found in the Appalacian Mountains means the Appalacian Mountains used to be under water.
Weather means what happens in the sky.
The amount of nutrients in soil are one factor that determines soil quality.
Cloudy means the sky is covered with clouds.
Moving an object from a cool place to a warm place increases it's temperature.
A hummingbird is a kind of animal.
Coal is a nonrenewable resource.
Plant stems transport water and food between the roots and the rest of the plant.
Atmosphere means air.
Coal can be burned to produce heat.
A set of instructions is required to assemble a kit.
Trees are a kind of matter.
A mountain chorus frog is a kind of animal.
An object's weight varies with that object's mass.
Die means not survive.
Attract means move closer.
Something that is thick is more resistant to damage.
The sun is the ultimate source of energy for all physical cycles on Earth.
A skill means a characteristic.
A drought is a decrease in the amount of water available.
A ladybug has spots.
The closer to the North Pole a location is. the less daylight it receives during the winter.
Being around something means surrounding it.
Peas are a kind of plant.
Animals need to eat food to get nutrients required for survival.
Erosion is usually harmful to an environment.
A solid is somehting that keeps its shape.
Animals exhale carbon dioxide.
The cell wall gives support and protection to the cell membrane.
Candy is a kind of dessert.
A drought is a decrease in the amount of precipitation.
O2 means Oxygen.
Down is very soft.
Nearly all fossils are found in sedementary rock.
Live is to be alive.
Windy means having wind.
Streak is a mineral's color below the surface. or when it's broken into powder.
Something being the greatest means it has the highest value.
Mining is when rocks and minerals are taken from the ground.
Damage is a kind of harm.
Shade occurs when an object blocks sunlight.
Coral lives in the ocean.
Peas are a kind of seed.
Fall is a kind of season.
An ocean is a body of water.
Bright means emitting a lot of light.
Soup is a kind of food that is a liquid.
Plants require sunlight to grow.
Survive means live.
A simple machine uses mechanical energy to function.
Ice cream is a kind of solid.
The life cycle describes stages from birth to death.
High quality soil is fertile soil.
Squirrels store food in the autumn to eat over the winter.
Evaporation happens when liquids are heated.
A stream is a kind of body of water.
A sea turtle has flippers.
Loosening something means making it less dense.
Natural gas is a kind of fuel.
Clams live in the bottom of the ocean.
Steel is a kind of magnetic metal that includes iron.
Seeing very small things is easier with a microscope.
Cooling means decreasing heat.
A skeletal system is made out of bones.
Dew is a kind of condensation.
Requiring something means needing something.
Seeking something means trying to find it.
The sun is the ultimate source of energy for all life on Earth.
Objects that increase in temperature also increase in size.
Pesticides protect a plant by killing insects.
High temperatures can cause an object to combust.
Rain and wind cause erosion.
Mold is a kind of fungus.
Cool is to decrease temperature.
Centimeters are a unit of length.
Water is a kind of natural resource.
Red is a kind of color.
Inherited characteristics are passed from parent to offspring through genes or DNA.
Better look means see better.
Plants are a kind of living thing.
Exhale means breath out through the lungs.
Two magnets with the same poles facing each other will repel.
A bird that has just hatched is called a hatchling.
Low quality soil is infertile soil.
A compass is used for determining direction.
Food contains nutrients.
The environment includes forests. rivers. grasslands. and oceans.
Harming something is the opposite of supporting something.
Keeping means staying.
A thunderstorm is a kind of storm that contains rain. thunder. and lightning.
A tree can live for hundreds of years.
A skeletal system is a part of an animal.
A piece is a smaller part of the whole.
Dew is a form of liquid water.
All living things eliminate waste.
A tree is a kind of plant.
In the winter. plants usually die or become dormant. and do not produce food.
If something is on fire. it burns.
Bees eat pollen.
People usually learn how to read and write at school.
Classification is the process of grouping things based on their characteristics.
A fish is an animal that lives in an aquatic environment.
Repeating something X times multiplies the time it takes by X.
Objects are made out of material.
Turning water off means using less water.
A marsh willow herb is a kind of plant.
Air temperature decreases as altitude increases.
A lever is a simple machine that can help lift or move heavy objects.
If an object makes something. it is a source of that something.
A greenhouse is a kind of shelter for plants.
A cell wall is a part of a plant cell.
Magnetic objects tend to attract each other.
Absorbing sunlight causes objects to heat.
Fall means move in a downward direction.
Reflecting light means it will not absorb.
Shaking is a kind of motion.
A tadpole is a young frog.
Take in means absorb.
Grass is a kind of plant.
Taste is a property of an object.
When the hummingbird moves to a new flower. the conditions for pollination will be met.
Seeds grow on the ground.
A sand dune is a hill of sand that was piled by the wind.
When animals move something. they use mechanical energy.
Humans start digesting food in the mouth.
A good road surface is smooth.
An electromagnet will pull magnetic metals. while leaving nonmagnetic metals.
Time is measured using a watch. clock. or stopwatch.
Heat is to increase temperature.
Adult trees take up space.
A rocket is a kind of vehicle.
A pulley is used to raise a flag on a flagpole.
A decrease in the amount of water will cause a decrease in plant populations.
The sun produces sunlight.
An environment is similar to an ecosystem.
Drying means decreasing the amount of water or liquid in something.
Summer is when a hemisphere is tiled towards the sun.
A coral is a kind of aquatic animal.
A flipper is a kind of limb that is flattened like a paddle for moving through water.
H2O means water.
Roots absorb water and nutrients from the soil into the plant.
Taken away means decreasing.
A plant is a living thing.
The United States of America is in the Northern Hemisphere.
A field is a kind of environment.
Magnetic objects tend to stick to each other.
Pluto is the ninth closest planet to the sun.
Clear weather means sunny or not cloudy.
Instructions are usually included in kits.
A duck is an animal.
A seed is a part of a plant.
In the southern hemisphere. August is in Winter.
High humidity is often found near a body of water.
A hen is a kind of female adult chicken.
Babies develop into adults.
Fire causes harm to trees and forests and living things.
An endangered animal is an animal species that has a low population. usually due to harm from human activies.
Changing from the Summer to the Fall. the amount of daylight will decrease.
Drop means decrease.
Butter is a kind of solid.
When plants grow. they may increase in height.
Berries contain seeds.
Crop rotation helps renew and protect soil.
Drying means becoming less wet.
A pumpkin is a gourd.
Assmbling means putting something together.
Igneous rocks are formed from magma.
Decomposers are living things.
Oxygenated means having oxygen.
An environment means an area.
Plant roots grow better in looser soil.
Provide means to give or make.
A mirror is an object with a shiny surface.
A fuel is used to make energy.
Natural gas is can be burned in power stations to make electricity.
In order to be healthy. humans must get regular rest.
The opposite of a negative impact is a positive impact.
A hand lens is a magnifying glass.
A compass is useful for navigating on oceans.
Sugar dissolves in water.
Resting means to sleep.
Low-pressure systems usually form stormy weather.
Something that is thick is more resistant to tearing.
A pulley is a kind of simple machine.
Water is a kind of medium for light.
Cutting wood requires measuring length.
Spring is a kind of season.
Coral usually lives in warm water.
The stomach is a part of the digestive system.
An egg is a part of a life cycle.
Trees need space to grow.
Down is a small feather found on young birds.
Staying warm means keeping warm.
A telephone is an electrical device.
Tearing means to change a whole into pieces.
Electromagnets generate magnetic fields.
Squirrels are gathering animals. and largely gather nuts for food.
Waste is often harmful.
Something's shape can be discovered through touching it.
Sediment is the basis for creating sedimentary rocks.
A tuna is a kind of fish.
A butterfly is a kind of organism.
Humidity is water vapor in the air.
A predator is an animal that eats other animals for food.
Brass is a kind of alloy.
Colder means changing to be more cold.
Sedimentary rocks form from small particles of rock. from remains of plants or animals. or from cementing small pieces of rocks or shells together. usually near water or a body of water.
Wax is a kind of electrical insulator.
Viewing is observing light.
The sun is one of the hottest objects known.
Corn is a kind of plant.
A gourd is a kind of fruit.
Deposition means to move an object from one location and leave in another location.
Combust means to catch fire.
Plants dying in the winter is an example of a seasonal change.
Bedrock is a kind of rock.
The petals of a flower are often brightly coloured and scented to attract pollinators.
The esophagus connects the mouth to the stomach.
Oceans cover 70 % of the Earth.
Carrying means moving.
When a body of water receives more water than it can hold. it floods.
Tea is a kind of food.
Increasing mass also increases weight.
Squirrels are a kind of animal.
Animals are a kind of living thing.
If you are lost you do not know your location.
An apple is a kind of food.
All animals require oxygen to survive.
If a prey population decreases. the predator population may decrease.
Most means over 50 %.
Cooling means decreasing temperature.
A cluck is a kind of sound made by a chicken.
The north pole of one magnet will attract the south pole of another magnet.
Vaned feathers have a stiff center with soft barbs on the side.
Length is a part of size.
When objects are in motion. they will eventually stop due to friction. unless force is continually added.
Carry means to move something.
An average dog may weigh 32kg.
The digestive system breaks down food into nutrients that can be absorbed by the body.
Birds flying south is an example of migration.
The ground is part of the Earth.
Lightning is a kind of electricity.
A tape measure is a tool used to measure length.
Under water means covered by water.
Sugar is a kind of food.
Living for hundreds of years is considered a long life to a human.
Desserts are a kind of food.
Trees need sunlight to grow.
A coast is where land meets a body of water.
People is multiple persons.
Crops are a kind of food.
After food is chewed. it is swallowed. where it moves to the stomach.
Objects that are farther away appear smaller.
Birds can move seeds from one place to another by eating the seed. then expelling it as waste.
A home is a kind of building.
A metamorphosed rock is a rock that changes from one kind of rock into another kind of rock through the addition of heat and pressure.
Crop rotation is where different crops are planted on a field in different years.
A freezer makes things cold.
A nature preserve is a kind of habitat.
Heat means increase in temperature.
Lightning is an electrical discharge.
Tearing changes an object's shape.
Stronger means positive.
A bicycle contains two pedals.
Asphalt is a good road surface.
Changing color to the same color as the environment is a form of camouflage.
Catching something is a kind of obtaining something.
An average horse weighs between 400kg and 550kg.
December is in the summer.
Fins are used by aquatic animals to move through water faster.
Heavy means having a lot of weight.
Shivering is shaking that creates heat to keep the body warm.
An anemometer is an instrument used to measure wind speed.
Cool means decreasing temperature.
Size is a physical property.
Miles are used for measuring long distances.
Literacy is an important skill.
Larger fins allow animals to move through water faster.
A nose is a kind of body part.
A tadpole breates water.
Railroad tracks are a kind of object.
Temperature is a kind of heat energy.
After incubation. the egg hatches. which is when the bird leaves the egg.
In a food chain. green plants are producers.
A pumpkin contains seeds.
Animals that rely on plants for food must store enough food to last through the winter.
Copper is a kind of metal.
A tire moves against the road.
A nature preserve is a protected area where plants and animals are left undisturbed by humans.
Predators eat prey.
Animals eat food to get nutrients.
The opposite of good health is poor health.
A mouse is a kind of walking animal that lives in holes in the ground.
Reflecting light means it will not absorb. and will continue travelling in another direction.
Grass does not contain wood.
Crumple means to change from a smooth shape to an irregular or compacted shape.
Quail are a kind of matter.
Fruit comes from a flower.
When a mineral is rubbed on a streak plate. some of the mineral breaks off and forms a powder.
Winter has cold temperatures.
Wheeled vehicles require smooth surfaces.
A drum is a kind of musical instrument.
Seasons are caused by the tilt of the Earth's axis.
An electric fan uses an electric motor to rotate vanes that cause air to move.
A freezer takes away heat from objects.
Adult trees no longer existing means the space they occupy is free.
A piece of a paper bag is smaller than a whole bag.
A magnet contains a north pole and a south pole.
A graduated cylinder is an instrument used to measure volume.
Blacktop means asphalt.
Death means to die.
If living things become too cold. they will die.
Aluminum is a kind of matter.
An organism's life span is the length of time from it's birth to it's death.
The Arctic is a kind of environment.
Animals have limbs.
Stop means not moving.
Moving from one stage to another requires changes.
In the mouth. food is chewed.
A hurricane is a kind of storm with large amounts of rain and very fast winds.
As an adult bird. it will reproduce. starting the life cycle over again for it's children.
A glacier is moving ice.
Birds eat seeds.
Leaving something alone means not changing it.
Animals need to move to find shelter.
Physical changes involve physical properties of an object.
The Grand Canyon was formed by the Colorado River.
The sun is the closest star to Earth.
Stirring means moving an object in a circular motion. usually using one's hand.
Decreasing is a kind of change.
Warm means add heat.
The Colorado River is a kind of river.
Sinking is a direction meaning moving down.
A pond is a kind of environment.
Rain is drops of water that fall out of clouds in the sky.
Many animals are born as eggs.
A human is a kind of animal.
A thermometer is an instrument used to measure temperature.
Towards means closer.
Green is a kind of color.
Wood from trees can be burned to produce heat.
Coal is a kind of fossil fuel.
Covering something is a form of protection against weather. including precipitation and tempeature.
Miles are a unit of length.
Heating means increasing temperature.
The esophagus is a part of the body.
A tree is a living thing.
Cells use oxygen carried by the blood as fuel.
When plants grow. their roots may become longer.
Iron nails are made out of iron.
Claws are used by some preditors to catch prey.
Many pesticides are poisonous. and harm not only insects. but also humans.
Riding is a kind of motion. usually done with vehicles.
Food is a form of chemical energy that can be absorbed by animals through eating.
When things erode. they become smaller.
A computer controlling a robot is similar to a brain controlling a human body.
A fish is a kind of animal.
A flame temperatuer for common items may range from 500 ° C to 2000 ° C.
An alloy is the combination of two or more metals.
The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
An iron nail is made out of iron.
Moving is a kind of motion.
Sound is a kind of sound energy.
In the stomach. food is broken down by digestive enzymes.
A forest is often green in color.
Sedimentary rocks often show different colored layers.
A river is a kind of body of water.
The sun is the ultimate source of energy for all living things on Earth.
A storm is a kind of weather.
Fossils of coral being found in the Ohio means the Ohio used to be covered by warm water.
Coal is burned in coal-fire power stations to make electricity.
Birds eat berries.
When light can not reach an object. it can not be absorbed by that object.
A trout is a kind of swimming animal that lives in lakes.
A leaf is a part of a plant.
Downward is a direction meaning down.
Living things need energy to survive.
The weather is a property of an environment.
An eagle is a kind of flying animal that lives trees.
NEGATIVE : Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius.
Winter has cold weather.
A sheet of sandpaper is an object.
A microscope is a tool that can be used to make microscopic things appear bigger. so that they can be seen better.
Eggs then develop into babies.
Boston is near a coast.
A person is a kind of animal.
A snowshoe hare is a kind of animal.
Two people in distant places can communicate through telephones.
Arctic is a kind of environment.
A glass is a kind of object.
A bird is a kind of animal.
hanging from a solid to a liquid is called melting.
Taking in means recieve or absorb or get.
Not looking means not seeing.
The intestines are a part of the digestive system.
Decomposers are bacteria and fungi.
Adult trees have large canopies.
The moon's surface has many craters.
A computer controls the robot.
Coal is a kind of black rock.
A heavy rock is a heavy object.
Maryland is a kind of region.
NEGATIVE : A bat is a kind of flying animal that lives in caves and trees.
Destroyed means no longer existing.
A lemon tree is a kind of plant.
Sterling Silver is a kind of metal.
A fish is an animal that lives in water.
Coal is a kind of nonrenewable resource.
A chick is a kind of baby chicken.
A glass of water is a container of water.
Travel means to move.
Shade is the absence of sunlight.
An object's shape is a kind of property of that object.
Heat means increasing temperature.
Sugar causes food to taste sweet.
Get rid of means eliminate.
Seconds are a unit of measurement.
A pedal is a kind of lever used by a foot.
Helping is to assist in a change.
Predators eat other animals.
The seasons in the southern hemisphere are reversed from the northern hemisphere.
Musical instruments make sound.
Humans eat crops.
A channel is a place where water moves.
Aluminum can be recycled.
Smooth is a kind of texture.
Damp means a large amount of water.
An airplane flies at high altitudes.
All matter is made of atoms.
Liquids that have higher temperatures evaporate quicker.
A decrease in something's temperature causes it to become colder.
The tides are caused by the gravitational pull of the Moon on the Earth's oceans.
Shelter is a place that can protect someone from the rain and sun.
Electrical devices convert electricity into other forms of energy.
Nature means a natural environment.
When you have a function to do. you have an activity.
A pot is a kind of metal container used for cooking.
Sterling Silver is a kind of alloy.
Shore is the land found at the edge of a body of water.
A single-celled organism is a kind of living thing.
A field contains soil.
Eating desserts instead of normal food means taking in fewer nutrients.
High speed means fast.
Under water means in water.
Aluminum is an element.
A hole is less dense than its surroundings.
A crack is formed when something breaks.
Pumice is a kind of Igneous rock.
Exercise is a physical activity that makes a body stronger.
A tadpole lives in water.
Recycling nonrenewable resources is beneficial to the environment.
Roots anchor plants into the soil.
Preventing harm helps living things survive.
A car is an object.
Ferrous metals contain iron.
A flower contains pollen.
A fruit is a part of a plant that contains seeds.
Light means light energy.
To compare more than one thing. you must first measure each of those things.
The north pole of one magnet will repel the north pole of another magnet.
Transpiration usually happens in the leaves of a plant.
Blue is a kind of color.
A river is a channel of water.
Plants need sunlight for photosynthesis.
Rocks other than sedementary rocks form at high temperatures and pressures. destroying animal remains. causing no fossils to be formed.
Mass is measured in grams. kilograms. or pounds.
Sediment is matter that falls to the bottom of bodies of water -LRB- such as oceans and lakes -RRB-.
Webbed feet are used by aquatic animals to move through water faster.
A star is a celestial object.
Storing something to use later is an example of preparing for something.
A boulder is a large rock.
Physical fitness refers to good body health.
Dead means to not be alive.
Plants have roots.
A string is usually short.
Forests contain plants.
Pollination occurs when pollen is moved within flowers or carried from flower to flower by pollinating animals. or by the wind.
Survive means to live.
A wagon is a kind of vehicle.
Feel means to sense through touch.
The cell nucleus controls many of the functions of the cell.
A road is an object.
Replace means change from one thing to another.
Natural gas is a nonrenewable resource.
If you are lost at sea. you may know the direction of land.
Good means positive.
The start of something is where it begins.
A deer is a kind of animal.
Taking something out of a freezer causes it to increase temperature.
Sandpaper has a rough surface.
The Earth is the third closest planet to the Sun.
Fans are primarily used for cooling. especially cooling humans or rooms.
Refraction is the bending of light.
A leaf is small.
A multicellular organism is a kind of living thing with more than one cell.
An average chicken weighs 2 kilograms.
Leaving water running means continually using water. even when not being used in later steps.
Animals require enough nutrients to maintain good health.
Trout are a kind of fish.
Natural gas can be burned to create heat for cooking or heating buildings.
A hatchling is a baby bird.
A region is similar to an environment.
A fox is a kind of animal.
After cells use oxygen. the blood carries the carbon dioxide waste to the lungs. where it is exhaled.
Sunlight is a kind of solar energy.
A gas takes the shape and size of its entire container.
Objects placed in the sunlight will absorb solar energy and increase temperature.
NEGATIVE : Elements are not alloys.
A magnet is an object that attracts some metals.
Humans changing animal habitats usually causes animals harm.
Shape is a kind of property.
Shape is a physical property.
Taste is a sense.
It then passes through the small intestine. where nutrients from the food are absorbed into the blood.
Two magnets with different poles facing each other will attract.
A pencil is a kind of object.
Prey are a kind of food for predators.
The final stage of the life cycle is death. when the animal is no longer alive. generally due to disease. or being eaten by a predator.
A piece is a smaller part of a whole something.
An adult is part of a life cycle.
A drop is a small amount of liquid.
To change a living thing from alive to dead. it must be harmed.
Noise means sound.
High-pressure systems usually form clear weather.
August is a kind of month.
Rainy means raining often.
A metamorphic rock is a rock that has been changed from extreme heat and pressure.
Over time. a hatchling grows into an adult bird.
Adult trees no longer existing means sunlight will not be blocked from reaching the ground.
A shelter is a kind of protective covering against weather. including precipitation and temperature.
Animals need shelter.
Exercise means physical fitness.
Apart means away.
Insects eat crops.
Lunch is a meal.
Fall means Autumn.
Moisture means liquid water.
Adding heat means increasing temperature.
NaCl means sodium chloride.
Lead is an element.
Desserts usually have less nutrients than other foods.
Pushing an object across another object causes the surfaces to move against each other.
An electric device uses electricity as a source of energy.
Some birds are predators.
A cell nucleus is a part of a cell.
Oxygen-rich means containing a high level of oxygen.
Gold is an element.
A pond is a kind of body of water.
Liters and millimeters describe the volume of a liquid.
Rolling is a kind of motion.
An apple is a kind of fruit.
When pollen sticks to the hummingbird. it will move to where the hummingbird moves.
Cold environments usually do not have much food for animals.
A rock is an object.
A telephone converts sound into electrical energy. then transmits that electrical energy to another telephone. where it is converted back into sound.
Being resistant to something means being protected against that thing.
NEGATIVE : Something's shape can be discovered by seeing it.
Shape of body parts is a kind of inherited characteristic.
Mechanical weathering is when rocks are broken down by mechanical means. including moving wind. water. or ice.
A field is a kind of environment and habitat.
Microscopic means very small.
Transpiration is when plants add water vapor to the atmosphere.
Temperature is a property of weather.
Animals eat food to get the energy they need to survive.
Pollen is a part of a flower.
Increasing is a kind of change.
Soil with a small number of nutrients is low quality soil.
A star produces light and heat.
A flashlight is a kind of tool that emits light.
Counter means reduce or stop.
Animals need water to survive.
A gas is when particles spread out to take the shape of their container.
A puppy is a kind of dog.
A paper bag is an object.
Sound is a kind of vibration in the air.
Getting enough rest is a part of healthy living.
A rabit is a kind of animal.
A tire is an object.
Taking in means recieve or absorb.
Bacteria are a kind of decomposer.
The progression of seasons is Summer. then Autumn. then Winter. then Spring.
Waste is harmful to the environment.
A magnetic field is a magnetic force.
Thrust means to push in a given direction.
A worm is a living thing.
A tunnel is a hole in something.
An electromagnet is made when a wire is wrapped or coiled around a ferrous metal. where this metal is usually cylindrically shaped.
A skeletal system provides support and shape to an animal.
A puddle is a body of water.
Die is the opposite of live.
A housing development is where humans change a natural ecosystem into a place where humans can live. usually by removing native plants and animals.
Drop means to fall.
Warm up means heat or increase temperature.
Birds can spread the seeds of plants.
A piece of an object is a smaller part of a whole object.
Transportation means to move.
The main functions of a leaf are photosynthesis and gas exchange.
Taste is a kind of sense.
Natural resources are things that come from nature.
A baby is a kind of young animal.
Down is a kind of direction.
A ladybug is a kind of insect.
Larger means something has increased from it's previous value.
Trees are a kind of renewable resource.
Trees contain wood.
A rocket moves using a rocket engine.
Spraying crops with something means it is on the crops surface.
Aluminum is a nonrenewable resource.
A rocket engine takes in fuel and produces thrust by pushing gases out at high speed.
Speaking is a form of communication.
Oxygenated blood moves from the lungs to the heart. then from the heart to the rest of the body.
Friction acts on objects to counter the motion of two objects when their surfaces are touching.
Increasing temperature means adding heat.
A lever is a kind if simple machine.
An electric toothbrush is an electric device.
Changing from the least to the greatest means increasing.
Hours is a unit used for measuring time.
Storms and rain cause bodies of water to increase the amount of water they contain.
mL means milliliters.
Coal is a kind of rock.
Natural resources come from nature.
Food that is left moves into the large intestine. where it leaves the body as waste.
Iron is magnetic.
A gas expands to fill the shape and size of its container.
Solar energy is a renewable resource.
CO2 means Carbon Dioxide.
Large canopies block sunlight from reaching the ground.
The surface of the sun is extremely hot. and may be as hot as twenty million degrees Celsius.
Recycling is positive for the environment.
Gravel does not have a smooth surface.
Moisture is the presence of water. often in the atmosphere.
Grass can live up to 35 years.
Sedimentary rocks form at lower temperatures and pressures. allowing animal remains to be preserved and change into fossils.
A leaf is a kind of plant.
The esophagus is part of the digestive system.
Sound is heard through a sense called hearing.
A tree frog is a kind of animal.
Harming an environment also harms the living things in that environment.
An ecosystem is a kind of habitat.
When a tadpole changes into an adult frog. it grows lungs to breath air.
Animals shiver when it is cold.
A cell membrane is around the cell of all living things.
Eating food that contains pesticides can harm humans.
Refraction happens when light passes from one medium to another medium.
Milliliters are a unit of measurement.
Changing from the greatest point to the least point means decreasing.
A ladybug is small.
An ecosystem is a large community of living organisms. including plants. animals. and microbes. at a particular place or area.
Cutting down trees causes harm to the living organisms in an ecosystem.
Humans changing ecosystems usually causes harm to the living organisms in an ecosystem.
A forest is a kind of ecosystem.
A bear is a kind of animal.
A dog is a kind of animal.
A graduated cylinder is an instrument used to measure volume of a liquid.
A year is the time it takes the Earth to complete one orbit around the Sun.
The sun is a kind of star.
An object's color is determined by the light that reflects from it.
Paper is made from trees.
If an animal eats another animal. it is a carnivore or omnivore or predator.
Trees are a kind of resource.
Polluting is a human activity.
Orbit is a kind of circular motion caused by gravity.
Warm means warm temperature.
Air is a medium for sound.
A river is a kind of moving body of water.
All sounds are made by vibrations of molecules through the medium the sound travels.
A computer is a kind of communication tool.
Creating paper requires cutting down trees.
The sun causes water to evaporate quicker by adding heat.
Fur is a phyisical thing.
Planets orbit around stars.
A ball is a kind of object.
Snow is a kind of precipitation.
Sleet is a kind of precipitation.
Hail is a kind of precipitation.
Sharing information means communicating.
Winter is a part of the year.
Making something requires resources.
A canyon is a kind of big crack in the ground. or a very deep valley.
An inherited characteristic is a characteristic that is not learned.
Water vapor is the gas form of water.
Washing away means being moved by water.
A rock is a kind of object.
Fish live in water habitats.
NEGATIVE : Gravity is a kind of force.
Clearing a forest means cutting down the trees. which removes the forest.
Coloration is an adaptation.
A wooded area is another name for a forest.
Heating an object does not change it's mass unless part of the object boils away.
Hurricanes decrease strength when ocean temperatures decrease below 80 ° F. Hurricanes decrease in strength when they move over land.
Pushing is a kind of motion.
The life cycle of a plant describes stages from birth to death.
Planets are a kind of space object.
A stream is a kind of moving body of water.
Canyons are usually formed by rivers.
Two objects being made of similar materials means they may have come from the same source.
Liquid water is a kind of liquid.
Centimeters are used to describe an object's length.
A lizard is a kind of animal.
A finger is a part of a hand.
NEGATIVE : Being tall means having a large relative height.
Orbit is the time it takes for a planet to revolve around a star.
A gas in a flexible container will expand the container if it is heated.
A worm is a kind of animal.
A stove is a machine used by cooks to generate heat. usually for cooking.
Animals need air to survive.
A cactus is a kind of desert plant that stores water.
Dark means dark in color.
A sea turtle is a kind of animal.
All minerals are formed by natural geological processes.
Speed is a measure of how fast an object is moving.
A plant starts as a seed.
Molecules often means particles.
Increasing the amount of something native helps restore the thing it is a part of.
Sunlight is a form of energy that produces heat.
Boiling reduces the volume of a liquid.
Paper requires cutting down trees.
Increasing an object's surface area can help something float.
Growth is a kind of change.
Hawks eat lizards.
Animal habitats include forests.
Warm means some heat.
An animal requiring less energy means they require less food.
Having curly hair is an inherited trait.
A moose is a kind of animal.
Clouds are a part of the weather.
The seedling grows into an adult plant.
Squirrels tend to sleep through the winter.
Oxygen is also taken in by animals.
If the population of insects decreases. the population of lizards will likely decrease.
Precipitation tends to come from grey clouds.
Look at means observe.
Burning a body part means it was exposed to a lot of heat energy.
A decomposer is usually a bacteria or fungus.
Ice is found in the artic environment as ice. snow. and hail.
A native plant -LRB- also called an indigenous plant -RRB- is when a plant lives somewhere because of nature. not human change.
Snow is a kind of ice.
An electrical appliance can convert electrical energy into different kinds of energy.
Clouds produce precipitation.
A hand dryer produces heat.
A stopwatch is a tool used to measure time.
A reflector is a kind of shiny object for reflecting light. especially on vehicles like bicycles.
A seed germinates into a seedling. which is a baby plant.
Planting trees helps an ecosystem.
Satellites are a kind of space object.
A mammal is a kind of animal that births live young.
Sunlight is the radiation and heat from the sun.
Ice is the solid form of water.
A mineral usually has a crystal structure.
Clouds appear in the sky.
Downhill is a direction meaning down.
Drying up means losing all water.
Carbon dioxide is colorless.
Cooking is a kind of skill.
Clouds are made of water vapor.
A cat is a kind of mammal.
A kazoo is a kind of musical instrument.
Sunlight is light from the sun.
NEGATIVE : An animal sheds in warm weather.
If sound energy is intense. it can cause objects to move.
Inspect means examine.
Preferences are generally learned characteristics. or result from environmental exposure.
An object is made of material.
Canyons are usually formed by rivers eroding the ground over long periods of time.
Some animals cool their body by hanging out their tounge and panting.
Friction causes a decrease in speed.
Storms are a kind of weather.
The fruit is the part of a plant that holds the seeds.
Current means electric current.
Sleeping requires less energy.
A flower is a part of a plant that produces pollen and seeds.
Generally. the more rain a plant receives. the more it will grow. up until a threshold.
Metals are electrical conductors.
Helping means have a positive effect.
Food preference is a kind of preference.
A cactus spine is an adaptation that protects the cactus from animals.
Humans generally consider cold to start at less than 65 ° F. Humans generally consider warm to start at more than 80 ° F.
Down is a direction.
An object's surface area is partially determined by it's shape and size.
A balloon is filled with a gas.
Being good at a skill usually requires learning how to do that skill.
If an object is blue. it reflects only blue light.
A frog is an animal.
Animals depend on food for survival.
A metal spoon is an object made out of metal.
Thunder is a kind of loud sound made by lightning.
Black is a kind of color.
Lizards eat insets.
Living in a habitat means being a part of that habitat.
Hardness is a property of a material.
A forest is a habitat where birds live.
Animals eat plants as food to get nutrients to survive.
Changing materials allows one to choose a new material with different properties.
Carbohydrates are chemical compounds made up of joined sugars.
Liquid foods are usually cooked in pots.
A bean plant is a kind of plant.
An eagle is a predator to a snake.
Urine is stored in the bladder until the body excretes it.
If a body of water loses all its water. it no longer exists.
Coloration means a pattern of colors.
Fur is a kind of covering around the body of an animal.
A human has body parts.
Walking is a kind of moving.
Preparing for something allows one to reduce harm of something that may happen in the future.
An animal is a kind of living thing.
Sound waves mean sound energy.
NEGATIVE : Fur color is an inherited characteristic.
Animals can use smell to help search for food.
Animals have a body.
Recycling reduces the resources needed to make something.
Harming something is having a negative impact.
Touching means making contact with the surface of an object with a body part.
A beach is a kind of habitat.
Attracting a mate means finding a mate.
June is in the summer.
Reduce means to decrease.
Something rough has more friction.
The floor is the bottom of a room.
Sweat is a liquid made by the skin when the body is hot.
A scale is a small. hard plate that grows from an animals skin.
Oxygen is a kind of gas.
The floor is an object.
Removing forests means removing animal habitats.
Something smooth has less friction.
Many vehicles emit pollution.
Photosynthesis takes in sunlight and carbon dioxide.
Hot means high tempertures.
A dense forest is often dark.
A satellite is something that orbits a planet.
Food contains carbohydrates.
An electron microscope is a tool that can be used to make exceptionally small objects appear bigger. so that they can be seen better.
Curiosity is an emotion that describes the need to know new things.
Strong means a lot of something.
Studying something allows someone to predict it's behavior.
Prediction allows one to know what might happen in the future.
Centimeters are a unit of measurement.
Too much water and a plant will not grow.
Animals get energy from food.
Sprouting means germinating.
Soup is a kind of liquid food.
Two space objects occasionally collide. either merging into one space object. or forming two or more new space objects.
A rabbit is a kind of animal.
Musical instruments making sound means that musical instruments vibrate.
Height is an inherited trait.
A pond is a kind of water habitat.
Riding an object across another object causes the surfaces to move against each other.
Adult plants may reproduce by producing seeds. starting the life cycle again for it's offspring.
The moon reflects sunlight towards the Earth.
A hum is a kind of sound.
A finger is a body part.
When something is formed. it is created from a source.
In order for something to change from a solid to a liquid. it must melt.
A year contains 365 days.
Color is a property.
Resemble means have similar characteristics.
Length is a part of shape.
The animal that a peditor eats is called prey.
A vibration is a kind of motion similar to a wave.
Coloration functions to help find a mate.
Craters on planets or moons are usually formed by impacts with asteroids or meteoroids.
Odor takes the form of a gas of very low concentration.
Years are a unit of time.
Search for means find.
Thunder occurs during thunderstorms.
A hand dryer is an electrical appliance.
A cook is a kind of profession for a human.
Shedding is when an animal loses hair or fur.
An amoeba is a single-celled organism.
A pine tree is a kind of plant.
Some light bulbs also convert electricity into heat energy.
Landslides often occur on mountains.
Nutrients are required for growth and energy.
A path is a kind of pathway.
Living things that eat each other form a food chain.
A wetland is a kind of habitat.
Weathering can happen through different forces. including water and plant life.
When an animal sheds. it's hair or fur becomes less dense.
A telescope is like a magnifying glass for objects that are distant. or in the sky.
Crumble means break down.
A nutrient is a chemical compound.
A year is the time it takes the Earth to orbit the sun once.
Touching causes being exposed to something.
A barometer is an instrument that measures air pressure.
A bird is a living thing.
Lakes are a kind of water habitat.
A filament in a light bulb is usually made of tungsten.
A window is a part of a house.
Same means being identical or equal.
Storms can cause harm.
A telescope is an instrument for observing stars.
A mushroom is a kind of fungus.
A forest contains trees.
Faster means an increase in speed.
Temperature drop means become cooler.
Inspecting something that causes harm allows one to reduce or prevent that harm.
A lizard is a kind of living thing.
A gas is a kind of matter.
A snake is a kind of animal.
Paper can be recycled.
A wetland is a kind of ecosystem.
A parallel circuit is an electrical circuit where the electricity or current is divided into two or more paths.
Leaving a faucet on means taking water but not using it.
Months are a unit of time.
A continent is a large area of land.
Nonliving means not living.
Many desert animals want the water stored inside a cactus.
Fur color and fur coloration is an inherited characteristic.
An electrical appliance uses electrical energy.
Carbohydrates are a form of energy storage and energy transport.
Coloration means an animal's color.
A source is where something comes from.
Food is eaten by living things to provide energy and nutrients.
A moon is a satellite.
An increase is a kind of change.
heat is a kind of energy.
Gas is a kind of matter.
Molecules are a kind of matter.
A good place to live is a place that is not negative.
Repair means to heal.
A bicycle is a kind of object.
A molecule is an exceptionally small object.
A filament produces light by becoming so hot that it glows.
A component means a part of.
When objects are in shade. some object blocks direct sunlight. so the sunlight can not reach the spot.
Taking something without using it is a waste of that thing.
When humans move to an area. this usually causes native species to lose some or all of their native habitat.
Rain is a kind of precipitation.
A road is a kind of object.
A plant is a kind of living thing.
Locate means to find.
If an object is black. it absorbs all visible light.
Sunny means a day with lots of sunlight.
Building something is a kind of change.
All living things grow from infancy to adulthood.
A tornado is a strong wind storm that moves in a circle.
A turtle is a kind of animal.
Hurricanes form when warm ocean water condenses. forming clouds. and warming the surrounding air.
Brown is a kind of color.
Oxygen is given off by plants.
Panting means to breath quickly through the mouth.
The Moon is a satellite of the Earth.
An environment is a place in the natural workd. like a forest. river. or ocean.
Formation means to create something.
The Earth is a planet.
The sky is part of an environment.
A mother births offspring.
Sand is a mixture of very small rocks and minerals.
A light bulb is an electrical device that converts electrical energy into light energy.
Glowing means producing light.
A scale gives an animal protection.
Rainy is a kind of stormy weather.
Riding something is to move it over a surface.
The blood takes chemical waste and excess water to the kidneys.
A solar panel converts sunlight into electricity.
A material that scratches easily has a low hardness.
Shorter means smaller.
Dying is a large change.
Both means two.
The larger a cloud is. the more precipitation it contains.
Fur color and fur coloration are inherited characteristics.
The final stage of the life cycle is death. when the plant is no longer alive. generally due to disease. or being eaten.
Carbon dioxide is a kind of gas.
If a predator population decreases. the prey population may increase.
A butterfly is a living thing.
An electron microscope can create a picture.
A black sheet of paper is an object.
Flowing is a kind of motion.
A balloon is a flexible container.
NEGATIVE : A bear is a living thing.
All living things have the capacity for reproduction.
A desk is usually short.
Animals are living things.
A field is a kind of area.
Rainfall is the amount of rain an area receives.
When clouds become cold. they condense. and turn from a gas to a liquid.
When lava is on the Earth's surface. it cools.
Food has an odor.
A radio is a kind of communication tool.
Sweat helps cool down a body.
Mass is a property of matter.
A snowstorm is a kind of weather.
Harming an animal species can decrease it's population.
A landslide is the rapid movement of rocks or soil by water. especially after a rain storm.
High means a lot of something.
A rain forest is a kind of forest.
Eagles eat snakes.
A meter stick is a tool used to measure distance.
An ear is a kind of body part.
Observing things can involve taking a picture.
Rain is a form of water.
Carbon dioxide is normally a gas.
To little water and a plant will not grow.
Sunlight is produced by the sun.
Planting trees is the opposite of cutting down trees.
An atom is an exceptionally small object.
An incandescent light bulb converts electricity into light by sending electricity through a filament.
Fossils of ocean animals being found in the grand canyon means ocean animals used to live there long ago.
An eagle is a kind of animal.
A material that dents easily has a low strength.
A hawk is a kind of animal.
Properties can be used to describe something.
Rain happens when the temperature of the environment is above 0 ° C. Snowing and hailing happen when the temperature of the environment is below 0 ° C. Rainy means a rain storm.
Precipitation can be in the form of rain. snow. sleet. or hail.
Take a picture means create a picture.
Having freckles is an inherited trait.
Thick is similar to large.
Breaking down an object changes it's shape and it's mass.
Healing requires rest and nutrients.
Ice is a kind of solid water.
Photosynthesis produces oxygen and sugars.
Spotted is a kind of color pattern.
Emit means produce.
Speed is measured in km/h or m/s or mph.
Below freezing means below 0 ° C. Above freezing means above 0 ° C. Death means to die.
A renewable resource is a resource that is replaced naturally and can be used again.
If the population of lizards decreases. then the population of hawks will likely decrease.
A filament is made out of metal.
Planting something increases the amount of something.
Volume is a property of matter.
The roots of a plant can slowly break down rocks as the roots grow.
A telescope is an instrument for observing stars. planets. or the moon.
Arctic animals live in an artic environment.
Crops are a kind of plant.
Humans shiver when it is cold.
Bouncing something back means reflecting it.
After a living thing dies. it is dead.
The longest something means the greatest something.
A mineral is a kind of object.
A bird is a kind of living thing.
An earlobe is a kind of body part.
If multiple objects are made of the same material. they will have the same material properties.
June is a month.
The food chain starts with producers.
Inventing something means it now exists. where it did not exist before.
A blue block is an object.
An insect is a kind of animal.
Odor is the smell of something.
When an object is in direct light. it is not shaded.
Speed is the distance that an object moves in a given amount of time.
Orbiting something means revolving around something.
Skills are learned characteristics.
Animals need food to survive.
CO2 means carbon dioxiode.
Carnivres and omnivores and predators eat other animals for food.
Liquid water falls from the sky. which is called precipitation.
Something that is different is not the same.
The kidneys remove waste and excess water from the blood. and turns it into urine.
Wind is a renewable resource.
Mechanical energy exerted by one object can be used to push or pull another object.
A snake is the prey of an eagle.
The roots of plants can prevent erosion by helping hold soil in place.
If an object is white. it reflects all visible light.
An offspring being born alive means it develops inside it's mother instead of inside an egg.
Lizards often live in desert habitats.
A hurricane is a kind of storm with high winds.
Erosion is harmful.
A drought means decreasing the amount of water.
Sandpaper is a kind of paper with rough abbrasive particles glued to its surface.
Plants require water to grow.
Sky conditions are a property of weather.
A natural ecosystem is an ecosystem that contains native living things.
Rattle is a kind of motion. similar to a vibration.
Affected means changed.
Carnivores and omnivores and predators eat other animals for food.
Hail is a kind of ice.
Nonliving is the opposite of living.
Hurricanes usually cause harm to living things and buildings.
A gas takes the shape of it's container.
